HBase Connection Registry usage with Phoenix JDBC url (#24869)
trinodb/trino: docs/src/main/sphinx/connector/phoenix.md

> | Property name                      | Required | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: Ideally we change this whole list into a list-table .. but that could be a separate commit before or after .. or even a separate PR

|------------------------------------| -------- |--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | `phoenix.connection-url`           | Yes      | Detailed description: [](phoenix-connection-url).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `phoenix.connection-url`           | Yes      | See [](phoenix-connection-url).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

| `phoenix.max-scans-per-split`      | No       | Maximum number of HBase scans that will be performed in a single split. Default is 20. Lower values will lead to more splits in Trino. Can also be set via session propery `max_scans_per_split`. For details see: [https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html](https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html). (This setting has no effect when guideposts are disabled in Phoenix.) |
| `phoenix.server-scan-page-timeout` | No       | The time limit on the amount of work single RPC request can do before it times out. Type: [](prop-type-duration).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

(phoenix-connection-url)=

> ### `phoenix.connection-url`

Reviewer: Connection URL:
```suggestion
### Connection URL:
```

> phoenix.connection-url supports multiple formats:

Reviewer: The connection URL for Phoenix set with `phoenix.connection-url` supports multiple formats:

> 1. `jdbc:phoenix[:zk_quorum][:zk_port][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`. Connection uses HBase Zookeeper Registry. The `zk_quorum` is a comma separated list of ZooKeeper servers. The `zk_port` is the ZooKeeper port. The `zk_hbase_path` is the HBase root znode path, that is configurable using `hbase-site.xml`.  By default the location is `/hbase`. Principal, Keytab and Options are optional.

Reviewer: Change this whole list into an item list and wrap at 80 char width so we can actually review wording.

Like 
```
* `jdbc:phoenix[:zk_quorum][:zk_port][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:
Connection uses HBase Zookeeper Registry. The `zk_quorum` is a comma separated
list of ZooKeeper servers. The `zk_port` is the ZooKeeper port. The
`zk_hbase_path` is the HBase root znode path, that is configurable using
`hbase-site.xml`.  By default the location is `/hbase`. Principal, Keytab and
Options are optional.
* `jdbc:phoenix+zk[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:
Uses same Connection as above, however host:port pairs are separated by comma.
...
```

| `phoenix.max-scans-per-split`      | No       | Maximum number of HBase scans that will be performed in a single split. Default is 20. Lower values will lead to more splits in Trino. Can also be set via session propery `max_scans_per_split`. For details see: [https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html](https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html). (This setting has no effect when guideposts are disabled in Phoenix.) |
| `phoenix.server-scan-page-timeout` | No       | The time limit on the amount of work single RPC request can do before it times out. Type: [](prop-type-duration).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

(phoenix-connection-url)=

> ### Connection URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Connection URL
```

The connection URL for Phoenix set with `phoenix.connection-url` supports multiple formats:

> * `jdbc:phoenix[:zk_quorum][:zk_port][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:

Reviewer: Empty line before list

  Connection uses the HBase Zookeeper Registry. `zk_quorum` is a comma-separated
  list of ZooKeeper servers. `zk_port` is the ZooKeeper port.
  `zk_hbase_path` is the HBase root znode path, that is configurable using
  `hbase-site.xml`.  By default the location is `/hbase`. Principal, Keytab and
  Options are optional.
* `jdbc:phoenix+zk[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:
  Uses the same connection as the preceding example with `host:port` pairs as a comma-separated list.
* `jdbc:phoenix+rpc[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][::principal][:keytab][;options]`:
  Connection uses the HBase RPC Registry. Recommended for HBase 3+
  versions. `host:port` pairs are comma-separated.
  Host names refer to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster ports.
  Principal, Keytab and Options are optional.
* `jdbc:phoenix+master[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][::principal][:keytab][;options]`:
  Connection uses the HBase Master Registry. `host:port` pairs are comma-separated.
  Host names refers to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster ports.
  Principal, Keytab and Options are optional.

> 

Reviewer: remove one empty line

| `phoenix.max-scans-per-split`      | No       | Maximum number of HBase scans that will be performed in a single split. Default is 20. Lower values will lead to more splits in Trino. Can also be set via session propery `max_scans_per_split`. For details see: [https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html](https://phoenix.apache.org/update_statistics.html). (This setting has no effect when guideposts are disabled in Phoenix.) |
| `phoenix.server-scan-page-timeout` | No       | The time limit on the amount of work single RPC request can do before it times out. Type: [](prop-type-duration).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

(phoenix-connection-url)=
### Connection URL:

The connection URL for Phoenix set with `phoenix.connection-url` supports multiple formats:
* `jdbc:phoenix[:zk_quorum][:zk_port][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:

>   Connection uses HBase Zookeeper Registry. The `zk_quorum` is a comma separated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Connection uses the HBase Zookeeper Registry. `zk_quorum` is a comma-separated
```

>   list of ZooKeeper servers. The `zk_port` is the ZooKeeper port. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  list of ZooKeeper servers. `zk_port` is the ZooKeeper port.
```

  `zk_hbase_path` is the HBase root znode path, that is configurable using
  `hbase-site.xml`.  By default the location is `/hbase`. Principal, Keytab and
  Options are optional.
* `jdbc:phoenix+zk[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][:zk_hbase_path][:principal][:keytab][;options]`:

>   Uses same Connection as above, however host:port pairs are separated by comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Uses the same connection as the preceding example with `host:port` pairs as a comma-separated list.
```

* `jdbc:phoenix+rpc[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][::principal][:keytab][;options]`:

>   Connection uses HBase RPC Registry. This is recommended for HBase 3+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Connection uses the HBase RPC Registry. Recommended for HBase 3+
```

>   versions (HBASE-26174). host:port pairs are separated by comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  versions. `host:port` pairs are comma-separated.
```

>   Host names refers to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Host names refer to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster ports.
```

  Principal, Keytab and Options are optional.
* `jdbc:phoenix+master[:host1\:port1][,:host2\:port2]...[,:hostN\:portN][::principal][:keytab][;options]`:

>   Connection uses HBase Master Registry. host:port pairs are separated by comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Connection uses the HBase Master Registry. `host:port` pairs are comma-separated.
```

>   Host names refers to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Host names refers to HMaster server names, port refers to HMaster ports.
```

  Principal, Keytab and Options are optional.

> PHOENIX-6523 introduced support for various Connection Registries.

Reviewer: Remove this line
